\n=== PAGE 1 ===\n
A far-eastern business contest
for 3 to 5 players aged 10 and up
It is 1821, and for 250 years the Philippine Islands have been under the thumb of the Spanish crown. But, in the end, the
Spaniards do not really control everything. In the shadow of the colonial power, self-willed natives have established secret
maritime trade with neighboring islands and the Asiatic mainland. Using odd-looking punts and fragile bamboo barks,
these black market traders cram their boats with nutmeg, silk, jade, and ginseng, and set sail to smuggle them into MANI-
LA. Succes in each venture is uncertain, as the seaworthiness of both boats and captains is poor. To add to their woes,
pirates lie in wait to plunder boats that cannot escape them.
Given all this, it is not surprising that wares that reach the black markets in MANILA command high prices, making
the venture worth the risk for those who succeed. The black market dealers use accomplices to ensure they get the
wares, bribe pilots to aid their cargoes and hinder others, and insure their cargoes against failure. And a few wealthy
merchants hire pirates to attack the black market boats and secretly pocket the profits from these raids.
Contents:
fig. 1: showing the contents, game board descriptions
4 ware loads 1 game board
for the 4 wares
wharf
3 punts
4 dice (in the colors
of the 4 wares) shipyard
4 value indicators (in the
colors of the 4 wares)
20 accomplices
20 shares: in five colors pirate
5 each of
4 wares
small
Pilot
nutmeg silk ginseng jade
coins of the Philippine
currency, „PESO“ large
Game overview rule booklet Pilot
The game is played over several rounds (called voyages). With each
voyage, 3 punts are loaded with wares and set sail for MANILA. The insurance
punts move based on die rolls, with one die for each type of ware.
The chances to reach the destination port differ by ware, but profits
are always higher when the risks are too.
Each player starts with 2 ware shares and 30 PESOS.
At the beginning of each voyage, the office of the harbor master is
auctioned. The office is important, as only the harbor master can
decide which wares will be loaded and where the punts will sail from, sea route black market table
giving some advantages over others. The harbor master is also able
to buy a new share as an investment in the future. Once the harbor
master has executed the duties of his office, all players hire accom-
plices to help them earn money on the voyage:
- They can be deployed on the punts, where they will earn money if the punts reach MANILA safely.
- They can be deployed at the port or the shipyard to earn money when punts reach the destination port or are damaged
and must land at the shipyard for repair.
- One can be deployed as the insurance agent. He is paid 10 PESOS for the job, but will have to pay for punt repairs for any
punts that fail to reach MANILA.
- They can be deployed as pirates, who will try to board or plunder unfortunate punts.
- Finally, they can be deployed as pilots to aid or hinder punts on their voyage to MANILA.
At the end of each voyage, player receive profits for successful accomplices. Wares, which reach MANILA, rise in value on the
black market. The game ends as soon as one ware value reaches 30. The player who has accumulated the largest fortune is
the winner.
\n=== PAGE 2 ===\n
Preparation:
Each player takes 30 PESOS. Place the remaining coins as a harbor cash box next to the game
Each player takes
board.
- 30 PESOS
Each player takes three accomplices in his color.
- 2 shares
- 3 accomplices When playing with just three, each player takes four accomplices.
Die einzige Regelabweichung für das Spiel zu dritt finden Sie im roten Kasten auf Seite 3.
( )
game for 3:
Place unused figures back in the box.
4 accomplices
From the 20 shares, take 3 of each ware and shuffle them face down. Each player takes two of
these and looks at them without showing them to the other players. Now sort all remaining
shares by ware and place them next to the game board (see fig. 2).
Place the four value indicators on the lowest space of the black market table, matching their
colors to those on the table (see fig. 2).
Place the punts, ware loads, and dice next to the game board.
(Beispiel)
Abb. 2a: Die nicht an die Spieler ausgeteilten Abb. 2b: Der Stand auf
Anteilscheine werden offen neben dem Spielplan dem „Schwarzmarkt“
ausgelegt. zu Beginn des Spiels.
Playing the game:
The game is played in several voyages, one after another.
Each voyage is played in the following order:
1. The office of harbor master is auctioned and performed.
2. Place accomplices and move punts by rolling dice (= „place and roll dice“)
3. Profit distribution
4. Ware values rise
After the four steps above, the voyage ends, and a new voyage begins with the auction of the office of harbor master.
1. The office of harbor master is auctioned and performed
To begin each voyage, the office of harbor master is auctioned.
The office of harbor master is very important:
- He can buy a share
- He decides which loads will be transported
- He places the punts in the water, choosing which punt has the starting advantage
- He places the first accomplice
Auction the office of harbor master:
The player who For the first voyage, the oldest player starts the auction with a bid of at least 1 PESO (or passes).
bids highest, For subsequent voyages, the player who was harbor master for the previous voyage, starts the
becomes the bidding. If the starting player passes, his left neighbor begins, and so forth around the table, in
harbor master. clockwise order.
The auction continues in clockwise order, with each player, on his turn, passing or offering a
higher bid. Once a player has passed in the auction for a voyage, he cannot re-enter the bidding
at a later point. The auction continues until all have passed, but one. This player has won the
auction. He pays his last bid amount to the harbor cash box and is now the new harbor master.
If no player bids in the auction, the previous harbor master retains the office for this voyage.
No player may bid more than he is able to pay. A player may always take a loan (=take credit)
any of his shares, in order to get the money he needs to pay his bid (see „Take credit“).
2
\n=== PAGE 3 ===\n
The harbor master performs the duties of his office:
a) buy a share
First, the harbor master decides whether he wants to buy a share. If he decides to, he takes the Harbor master
desired share from the game board and pays the cost to the harbor cash box. may buy 1 share
The cost of a share is determined by the current value of the ware on the black market associa- Price=value of
ted with the share. However, the minimum price is always 5 PESOS. that ware on black
fig. 3: a nutmeg share currently costs 10 market table,
PESOS and a silk share costs 20 PESOS. But, at least,
Ginseng currently has no value on the black 5 PESOS.
market, but the harbor master would pay 5
PESOS for a share, as he would for a jade
share, which is currently valued at 5 PESOS
on the black market.
Only the harbor master may buy a share, but he is not required to do so.
b) Load goods
Harbor master
Now the harbor master takes his
loads 3 wares and
second „official act“: he loads one ware
on each of the three punts. It is his leaves one ashore.
fig. 4: the harbor
decision alone, which ware he does not
master decided not
load (see fig. 4).
to load silk.
c) Place punts in water
The third act of the harbor master is to place the three punts in the water, thus determining
Harbor master
their starting positions:
determines the start
- For each punt there is a sea route on the board with spaces numbered from 0 to 13, ending at
the destination port. spaces for the
- The harbor master places each punt on one of the sea routes, but never two punts on the same 3 punts.
sea route. The sum of the
- When he places a punt, he places it on one of the start positions on the sea route selected,
start spaces = 9.
numbered 0 to 5.
- Note, however, that the sum of the numbers of the 3 start position MUST always add to exactly 9 No punt may start
(see fig. 5a to 5d). past space 5.
fig. 5a: when one fig. 5b: the harbor
sums the 3 start master may place a punt
positions, the must on space 0, if the sum of
always equal 9. For the other two positions
example, one punt (e.g. 4+5) is equal to 9.
can begin in space Remember, that no punt
4, another in space may start in a position
3, so the last would higher than space 5 (spa-
have to be in space ces 0 to 5 are marked to
2. reinforce this rule).
2. Place accomplices and move punts
Alternate
This phase has three accomplice stting rounds, each followed by a punt movement round. After accomplice placing
the first accomplice placing round is the first punt movement round, and so forth. and punt moving
(total of 3 each).
In a game with three players there aref 4 accomplice placing round and 3 punt movement rounds: after the
first accomplice placing round, there is a second accomplice placing round. Then comes the first punt move- Game for 3: before
ment round. After that, the rounds alternate as in the four player game. the first punt
moving, play
Place accomplices: 2 accomplice placing
rounds (=4 placing
Beginning with the harbor master, and continuing in clockwise order, each player takes turns pla-
rounds +3 moving
cing one of his accomplices on any vacant accomplice space and pays the amount shown on that
rounds).
space to the harbor cash box (exception: insurance, see below).
Accomplice placing
At any time, a player may choose to refrain from placing an accomplice on his turn. However,
round:
once a player has done so, he may place no further accomplices for this voyage.
each player places
If a player has no money and is not able to take a credit he may exceptionally place accomplices
1 accomplice.
as „blind passengers“ for free (see „take credit“ and „blind passenger“).
Harbor master
starts.
3
\n=== PAGE 4 ===\n
WHERE TO PLACE ACCOMPLICES?
Player can deploy their accomplices on the following places:
Wares (on board the punts):
For ginseng, silk, and nutmeg, there are three accomplice spaces, and for jade there are four
accomplice spaces.
When a player wants to place an accomplice on one of the 3 loaded wares, he should choose the
lowest-priced empty space of the desired ware. Each player may place several accomplices on the
same ware punt, if the space is available on his turns.
--> The goal of this action: to have accomplices on a punt that reaches the port destination on this voyage, so
the player can share in the profits (see: phase III: „profit distribution“).
--> The risk of this action: if the chosen punt does not reach the destination port, there is no profit to share,
and the player gets no return on his accomplice investment.
loaded punts
Port and shipyard spaces:
At each port and shipyard space, there is an accomplice place. In addition to the
punt placements, players may deploy their accomplices on any vacant port or shi-
pyard spaces. As with the ware spaces on the punts, a player can deploy several
accomplices on port and shipyard spaces, when they are vacant on his turns.
--> The goal of this action: to have accomplices on spaces where punts arrive at the end of the
voyage, so the player can earn the payment shown above the deployment space
(see phase III: „profit distribution“).
--> The risk of this action: if no punt reaches the chosen port, the player gets no return on his
accomplice investment.
port
Pirate spaces: shipyard
In the pirate boat are two accomplice spaces. The first to use the pirate space will take the front
space and become the captain. If the captain space is occupied, the player places his accomplice
in the second space. One player can have accomplices in both spaces.
--> The goal of this action: the pirates may board a punt that ends the second movement round on space 13
and may plunder any punt that ends its movement on the third round on space 13 (see „here come the
pirates“).
--> The risk of this action: if no punt reaches space 13, the player gets no return on his accomplice
pirate boat investment.
Pilot spaces:
The pilot island offers two accomplice spaces. When a player places an accomplice on one of
these (vacant) spaces, he chooses between the „large“ one, which is more expensive, but offers a
better return or the „small“ one.
--> The goal of this action: before the third round of punt movement, the pilots have an opportunity to aid or
hinder punts that have not yet reached their ports. Punts that reached their ports before round three
cannot be affected by the pilots (see „the pilots do their thing“).
--> The risk of this action: the exercised influence does not achieve the desired goal.
pilot island
Insurance:
The insurance office has an accomplice space. The player who places an accomplice here, pays
nothing, but immediately receives an "insurance" payment of 10 PESOS from the harbor cash
box.
--> The goal of this action: if, after three movment rounds, no punt lands at the wharf, the player keeps the
10 PESOS insurance payment.
--> The risk of this action: for each punt that lands at the wharf, the insurance agent must pay the repair
cost. In addition, the insurance agent takes over the profit disbursement to accomplices on those spaces
(see: „the insurance pays“).
insurance
4
\n=== PAGE 5 ===\n
End of movement rounds: Punt moving
round:
The harbor master rolls the three dice, fig. 6: The brown
whose colors correspond to the loaded „nutmeg die“ shows a Harbor master
wares. Then he moves each of the three 4. Therefore, the harbor
rolls the 3 dice
punts - in any order - along its sea route master move the punt
that match the
the number of spaces shown on its die loaded with nutmeg 4
(see fig. 6). spaces in the direction of wares loaded on
its port destination. He the 3 punts and
When a punt reaches its destination port with moves the silk punt 2 moves the punts
movement points remaining, these are
spaces forward. The jade forward based on
„discarded“. In no other case, may the harbor
junk reaches its port the die rolls.
master choose to „discard“ a punt's movement
destination with 2 move-
points.
ment points remaining.
Each punt must move only on its sea route.
These are discarded.
Sea route changes are not allowed.
Punts may not lose or exchange wares along
the way.
fig. 7: The jade punt reached
Punts which move
Successful voyage MANILA in the second round
past space 13
and now occupies port space
Each punt which travels past space 13, A. In the third round, the arrive at the
reaches its destination port of MANILA. other two punts reach destination port.
The first punt to reach MANILA is placed
MANILA. They are placed on
in port space A, the second is placed in
port spaces B and C, without
port space B, and the third is placed in
regard to which is placed
port space C (see fig. 7). No port space
where. If one of these two
can get 2 punts.
had not reached MANILA,
port space C would remain
vacant, and this punt would
be placed on shipyard space
Shipwrecks
A.
Punts, which fail to reach MANILA after
three movement rounds, are damaged and Punts that do not
must be placed in the shipyard (exception: reach space 13
punts which end movement in rounds 2 or fig. 8: Only the silk punt after 3 moving
3 on space 13 are captured by the pirates; arrived in MANILA. The
see „here come the pirates“). other two punts failed to rounds are placed
When only one punt fails to reach MANILA reach MANILA, or even in the shipyard.
or be captured by pirates, it is placed on space 13. They are both
shipyard space A. A second punt failing to placed in the shipyard, in There are 3 spaces
reach MANILA or be captured by pirates is spaces A and B. each (A, B, and C)
placed on shipyard space B. If all three in the port and
punts fail to reach MANILA or be captured shipyard for punts
by pirates, the last is placed on shipyard that land there.
space C (see fig. 8a, 8b). No shipyard space
can get 2 punts.
NOTE: immediately before the third movement round, the pilots have the opportunity to influence
movement of the punts (see "the pilots do their thing")!
Here come the pirates
When a punt stops on space 13 at the end of a movement round, the pirates attack the punt. If Punts stopping on
there are no pirates on the pirate boot at the time of the punt's arrival on space 13, the punt is space 13 are
not attacked. boarded or
Punts can be standing at space 13 after either the second or third movement round. Thus, there plundered by the
are two different pirate actions, depending on when the punt arrives: pirates.
a) Punts standing after the second movement round on space 13, are boarded by the pirates.
b) Punts standing after the third movement round on space 13, are plundered by the pirates.
A punt which arrives on space 13 other than at the end of a movement, but by pilot influence, is
not affected by the pirates (see „the pilots do their thing“).
a) boarded by pirates (see fig. 9)
Board: Only after
To board the punt, the player moves his pirate to a vacant space on the punt. If there is no the second
vacant space in the punt, it cannot be boarded (see fig.9).
movement round!
The pirate captain (forward space in the pirate boat) may board first. After he boards (or
Pirates may be
refrains from boarding), the second pirate my board. The choice to board or not is solely the
placed on a vacant
choice of each pirate in order. Each may choose to remain on the pirate boat in the hopes of
later plunder (see „plunder“). space of the
punts.
5
\n=== PAGE 6 ===\n
If the second When the pirate captain boards fig. 9: After the second
a punt, the second pirate imme- movement round, the jade
pirate remains
diately becomes the pirate cap- and ginseng punts are both
solely in the pirate
tain, moving to the forward on space 13. The pirate cap-
boat, he becomes position in the pirate boat. tain decides to board. As
the new pirate there is only vacant space on
If there are several punts stan-
captain. the ginseng punt, he boards
ding on space 13 after the
here. There is no further
second movement round, the
vacant space on either punt,
pirates are free to choose which,
so the second pirate moves
if any punts to board, but must
forward to become the pira-
board vacant spaces only.
te captain.
Note: players can increase the power of pirates somewhat by using the rule variant described at
the end of these rules.
b) Plunder (see fig. 10)
Each punt, which stands on space 13 after the third movement round, falls into the hands of the
Plunder: Only
pirates:
after the third
All accomplices on the punt are removed and returned to their players.
movement round!
The pirates receive the income for each plundered punt from the harbor cash box
The pirates share (see chapter 3: „profit distribution“).
the profits of the Now, the pirate captain decides for each plundered punt separately whether it lands at the port
wares plundered. or the shipyard. If he chooses the port for a punt, the value of the plundered ware rises in
value (see „ware value rising“).
fig. 10: The nutmeg punt stands
The pirate captain When a punt stands on space
on space 13 after the third move-
decides to send 13 after the third movement
ment round. All accomplices on
the plundered round and there are no pirates
the punt are returned to their
punts to the on the pirate boat, it is placed players with no profit. The pira-
on the next vacant port space.
harbor or to the tes share the profit from the nut-
shipyard. meg punt of 24 PESOS (12 PESOS
each) from the harbor cash box.
The pilots do their thing
Before the 3. At the end of the last accomplice placing round (just before the last punt movement round) the
movement round: pilots may use their influence on the movement of the punts. Pilots may not influence punts
which have already reached MANILA.
- the „small pilot“
The „small pilot“ (on the space costing 2 PESOS) goes first. He may move one punt either
moves 1 punt by
forward or backward by one space.
one space
Next, the „large pilot“ takes his turn. He may move one punt up to two spaces or two punts
- the „big pilot“ each by one space. He decides for each separately whether to move it forward or backward. Also,
moves 1 punt he may move the punt the small pilot moved or not, as he chooses (see fig. 11)
(2 spaces) or
When a pilot moves a punt past space 13, it has arrived at its port destination and he places it
2 punts (each by on the next vacant port space.
one space)
When a pilot moves a punt to space 13, nothing happens (the pirates only attack immediately
after the movement round).
fig 11: The last accomplice placing round has ended. Before the
last punt movement round, the harbor master pauses to give the
pilots the opportunity to use their influence. The "small pilot"
chooses to move the nutmeg punt forward by one space. Because
the nutmeg punt has now arrived in MANILA, the small pilot places
it on the next vacant port space and the "large pilot" will not be
able to move it. The "large pilot" decides to move the jade punt
backwards one space and the ginseng punt one space forward to
space 13. As the pirates are not now active, they cannot attack the
ginseng punt.
- The harbor master may only roll the dice to move the punts in
the third movement round after he has first given the pilots
the opportunity to execise their actions.
- Each pilot decides independently whether to use his influence or
not. Thus, for example, the small pilot can choose to refrain,
while the large pilot use his influence.
As soon as all punts have been moved in the third punt movement
round and all punts have been placed on port or shipyard space,
the profits are now paid.
6
\n=== PAGE 7 ===\n
3. Profit distribution
Now the players who placed their accomplices successfully will receive the profits from their suc- Profits:
cesses:
- PIRATE ACCOMPLICES earn a profit only if a punt ended movement in space 13 at the end of
punt movement round 3. The pirates plunder these punts, dividing the profits equally between
them. If only one pirate is on the pirate boat, he receives the entire profits from the plundered
punts. All accomplices on the plundered punts are returned empty-handed to their players
(see fig. 10).
- LOADED WARE ACCOMPLICES earn profits only if their punt arrived in the destination port of
MANILA. On each ware load is the amount of profit to be earned, which the accomplices share
equally among themselves (see fig. 12). All accomplices on a punt the was damaged and sent to
the shipyard, go home empty-handed. A. Pirates receive
the profits of
plundered punts
- PORT/SHIPYARD ACCOMPLICES earn fig. 12: The jade punt arrived
a profit only if a punt landed at the in MANILA with 3 accomplices and share them
port or shipyard space where they on board. Therefore, each equally.
were deployed (see fig. 13a, 13b). accomplice receives a third of (The harbor cash
Above the deployment spaces is the 36 PESO profit. The red box pays.)
printed the amount of profit. The player gets 24 PESOS, as he
profit for port spaces is paid, in each has 2 accomplices on the jade
case, from the harbor cash box. The punt; the yellow player gets 12 B. Loaded ware
profit for the shipyard spaces is paid PESOS for his accomplice on accomplies earn
by the insurance agent (if there is no the jade punt. profits of the ware
insurance agent, it is paid by the arriving in the
harbor cash box). destination port.
All accomplices deployed to a vacant port or shipyard space go
(The harbor cash
home empty-handed.
box pays.)
fig. 13a: Because fig. 13b: Only the gin-
2 punts reached the seng punt landed at
destination port, the shipyard. The C. Port accompli-
the ORANGE player BLACK player has an ces earn a profit if
earns 6 PESOS and accomplice there, but a punt landed at
the RED players he placed him on the the port space
earns 8 PESOS. The space for two punts where they were
BLUE bet on all 3 landing (shipyard
deployed.
punts reaching space B) in the shipy-
MANILA, but lost, so ard, se he gets (The harbor cash
he earns nothing nothing. In der Werft box pays.)
for this accomplice. ist nur der Ginseng-
Kahn gelandet. To
D. Shipyard
repair the ginseng
punt the BLUE player, accomplices earn
- PILOT ACCOMPLICES cannot directly earn as insurance agent a profit if a punt
profits.
pays 6 PESOS to the landed at the port
harbor cash box. space where they
The insurance pays were deployed.
Each punt, which lands in the shipyard, is damaged. To repair the damage, the insurance agent must The insurance agent
pay. He pays the insurance pays. If there is no
insurance agent, the
- to the player who deployed an ACCOMPLICE to the shipyard space where the damaged punt
harbor cash box
landed.
pays.
- to the harbor cash box, of no ACCOMPLICE was placed on the shipyard space where the punt
landed.
fig. 14: For both
The insurance payment is like a profit, which is paid
punts that landed
according to the number printed above the shipyard The insurance
in the shipyard, the
space where the punt landed (see fig. 14). agent also pays
insurance agent
for the repair of
must pay for
The insurance agent player may first take his profits repairs. He pays 6 punts on shipyard
for the voyage before paying for the punt repairs. If
PESOS to the BLUE spaces where no
he does not have enough cash to make the payments,
player and 8 PESOS accomplice has
he must take loans to cover the mssing amounts (see
to the ORANGE been placed. This
„take credit“). If he cannot raise enough cash, even
with loans, to pay the entire amount, he pays all that player. However, as amount he pays to
he can and the rest comes from the harbor cash box. the BLUE is the the harbor cash
insurance agent, he
The player does nopt have to repay the amount paid box.
pays only the 8
by the harbor cash box in this case.
PESOS to the
ORANGE player.
7
\n=== PAGE 8 ===\n
Take credit
To loan shares Each player who has unencumbered shares, can, at any time, take a load from the harbor cash
(„credit“) box, by encumbering one or more of his unencumbered shares. To indicate the share is encumbe-
= 12 Pesos from red, the player places it apart from his unencumbered shares face-down in his play area. For each
the harbor cash share, the harbor cash box will loan 12 PESOS.
box. When a player must make a payment and does not have enough cash, he MUST take a loan. so
that he may settle his commitments. When a player does not have enough cash and potential
Pay back
credit from unencumbered shares,
= 15 Pesos
- he may not bid for the office of harbor master an amount higher than what he could raise with
his current cash and available loans.
- he must take all the loans he can and pay for the repais as insurance agent until he has no
more credit - the remaining amounts will be paid by the harbor cash box (see „the insurance
pays“).
Each encumbered share may be made unencumbered by repaying the loan, plus interest, for a
total of 15 PESOS to the harbos cash box. The player places the now unencumbered share face
up back the the other unencumbered shares in his play area. He can, of course, use the share
again to take a loan, if necessary.
Not repaid credit
= minus 15 Pesos At game end, the players must pay back 15 PESOS for each still encumbered share in their play
areas (see „game end and the winner“).
at game end.
Blind Passenger
A player who has When a player has no cash (and has no unencumbered shares with which to take loans), or
no cash can place not enough to place an accomplice of the least expensive deployment space, he may place an
an accomplice on accomplice as a blind passenger on any vacant place (except insurance agent, which is not
allowed to him) for no cost (or for all his cash, if has too little to place an accomplice on the
the barges for no
least expensive deployment space. He may continue to do this until he again has cash or
costs („blind
unencumbered shares.
passenger“).
4. Ware values rise
Wares, which are All wares, which were delivered on this voyage to the destination port of MANILA, rise in value.
reaching the port, To do this, the move the value markers for these wares on the black market table up by one
space (e.g. from 0 to 5). Wares that did not reach the harbor remain the same in value.
rise in value up by
one on the black Next, to prepare for the next voyage, all punts and ware loads are placed at the edge of the game
market table. board. The players take all their accomplices back. The next voyage begins with the auction of the
office of the harbor master.
Game end & the winner:
Game end: One As soon as the value marker for at least one ware reaches 30 on the black market table, the game
ware reaches the ends.
Each player counts his cash (PESOS) and adds to this the value of his shares (the value of the ware as
value of 30.
shown on the black market table). From this sum, he subtracts 15 PESOS for each encumbered share
(loan not yet repaid). This final total is the players FORTUNE.
Winner: The
player with the The player with the highest fortune is the most successful merchant in MANILA, and the winner
highest fortune of the game!
(Pesos plus shares
minus not repaid
Variant: the pirates are allowed to board a punt even if there are no vacant spaces on
credits).
them. The boarding player removes one of the accomplices on the punt, returning
him to his player, and puting his pirate in his place. If, however, there are vacant spa-
ces on any punt on space 13, these must be filled first by the pirates. Only when
there are no vacant spaces can a pirate displace an accomplice on a punt. If both
pirates board the same punt, the second pirate may not displace the pirate captain
who just boarded the punt.
Offered by Zoch Verlag
Copyright: 2005
Author: Franz-Benno Delonge
Illustration & Layout: Victor Boden
8
